# Alexander Cimini – Project Repository

Welcome to my personal repository showcasing a collection of completed and ongoing projects. Each project reflects my interests and skills across financial engineering, data science, and software development. Below, you'll find descriptions outlining the purpose and objectives of each initiative.

## [WTW Market Price Prediction Model (Capstone)](https://github.com/ACimini/Projects/blob/main/WTW%20Market%20Pricing%20Broker%20Tool/WTW%20Final%20Report.pdf)

This project, conducted in collaboration with Willis Towers Watson (WTW), developed a predictive model for analyzing rate relativities and premiums across excess casualty insurance towers. Using a dataset of anonymized client towers, the team employed statistical models to model the relationships between layer limits, attachment points, and premiums. The model captured key non-linear trends in tower structures and achieved a strong predictive accuracy. The final deliverable was a broker and underwriter-friendly Excel tool with an R backend, enabling dynamic scenario testing and pricing analysis. This project highlights how these modern statistical methods can enhance pricing strategies in a dynamic excess casualty insurance market and provide a foundation for ongoing model refinement through expanded data sources and market integration.

## [Forecasting Day-ahead Expected Shortfall on the EUR/USD Exchange Rate](https://github.com/ACimini/Projects/blob/main/Forecasting%20Day%20Ahead%20USD-EUR%20VaR/EUR-USD%20Report.pdf)

In this project, we replicate and extend the findings of a recent paper on the best models for forecasting Expected Shortfall (ES) for EUR/USD foreign exchange returns (Lyócsa et. al). We check whether incorporating implied volatility information from options markets improves these risk forecasts. Our empirical strategy is based on a comparison of the performances of two groups of models: one that relies only on historical realized price measures, such as Exponential GARCH and quantile regression models, and another that supplements those with implied volatilities from options with daily, weekly, and monthly maturities. We adhere to the methodology of the original paper using strict ES regression-based backtesting and joint ES evaluation frameworks to validate our models. Our findings attempt to reproduce the original while contributing to knowledge regarding the added value of implied volatility in enhancing the accuracy of risk forecasting.
